IXD301: Designing User Experiences
==================================

<!-- 2015-16 Content -->

The [Designing User Experiences](http://ixdbelfast.org/curriculum/0002/01/01/designing-user-experiences.html) module covers a lot of ground, but – good news – it maps over to the other Year 2, Semester 1 module [Narrative and Storytelling](http://ixdbelfast.org/curriculum/0002/01/02/narrative-and-storytelling.html). If you work cleverly and creatively the two modules can inform each other and, in fact, they should.

Both of these modules explore the growing field of User Experience (UX). They encourage the creation of delightful user experiences, stressing the need to map out considered user journeys that are fit for purpose, meeting users' needs.

The module will focus on two deliverables:

1. Developing an app for Little Wing Pizza. (A live project, with a client briefing leading to the possible realisation of your idea.)
2. A simple weather-related web app that teaches you about JavaScript and JSON.


###Guest Lecturers

+ Kathryn Robinson, [Beannchor](http://www.beannchorcareers.com)
+ Kyle Gawley, [Get Invited](https://getinvited.to)


###Project 1 (Weeks 01-06): Little Wing Pizza

+ Week 01 - Introduction; Brief 1, Meet the Client; Idea Generation
+ Week 02 - Concept Development; User Research (Rebase, Dublin)
+ Week 03 - Wireframing Concepts; Customer Journeys
+ Week 04 - Prototyping in Keynote
+ Week 05 - Informal (In House) Critique
+ Week 06 - The Pitch


###Project 2 (Weeks 07-12): Weather App

+ Week 07 - Briefing; OpenWeatherMap
+ Week 08 - Subject to Change, See Below
+ Week 09 - Subject to Change, See Below
+ Week 10 - Subject to Change, See Below
+ Week 11 - Subject to Change, See Below
+ Week 12 - Subject to Change, See Below


----


###Week 01 - Introduction; Brief 1, Meet the Client; Idea Generation

24 September, 2015

Meet the client. I'll kick off with an introduction to the module. If you could come in for 11.30 on that day, you could give the students some background. (What you covered this morning was useful: 100,000 Pizzas; 5 Outlets; 7-10 Year Olds…).

After you leave, in the afternoon, I'll take the students through an idea generation workshop, where we'll come up with some concepts.

<!--

Ideas:

+ MVP
  1. Get Invited, Quick'n'Dirty Prototype
  2. Test Early, Test Often
  3. Running Smoke Tests (Is there any interest in your idea?)
+ In Your Customers' Shoes
  1. Designing Your Customer
  2. Personas
  3. What are your customers' needs?
  4. Where will you reach them?
  5. Are they paying? If so, how much?

-->


###Week 02 - Concept Development; User Research (Rebase, Dublin)

1 October, 2015

The students will be at Rebase this week, but ideally I'd like them to do some informal research with kids this week (on the Monday-Wednesday). That covers something we need to cover on the module, namely user research.

<!--

Ideas:

+ Just Enough Research
+ Structuring Questionnaires
+ Interpreting User Feedback

-->


###Week 03 - Wireframing Concepts; Customer Journeys

8 October, 2015

We'll spend a day putting together wireframes for the students' different concepts. We'll also explore user journeys, how users journey through the app or web site.


###Week 04 - Prototyping in Keynote

15 October

Taking everything the students have done to date, we'll start to build some prototypes using Keynote. Again, this covers something I need to cover on the module. The benefit of this is it gets the students thinking about how the abb or web site will work as users interact with it.


###Week 05 - Informal (In House) Critique

22 October

This will be in-house, i.e. I'll lead it. I'll get the students to pitch their ideas to me, so we can make refinements before you come in the following week for a final pitch. *

* This is something we'll need to discuss, as 17 students pitching for ~10 minutes each will take a bit of time and I'm not sure if you'll have that kind of time? If not, I'll need to think of a way of getting them to submit concepts so you can look them over.


###Week 06 - The Pitch

29 October

This will be their final submission. We'll either do a pitch (depending on your availability) or I'll do a final presentation, perhaps bringing in Melissa Keizer for the day?

One way or another, I'll need to wrap up the project that week so I can give the students feedback what they've done.


----


###Week 07 - Weather App Briefing

The structure of Weeks 07-12 is up for grabs. I'm open to your suggestions, Kyle, as to how we break this all into chunks.

I'd suggest we start by showing the students a styled version of what you've created (the wee HTML prototype). This gives the students a goal, i.e. something they can aim for. If you could take your simple app and add a little style it would be \*awesome\*.

We then use this as a point from which to work backwards, introducing JavaScript and the various things you touched on in your email.

I am in New York this week (for FOWD NYC), so I think you'll need to kick off the project solo.

I'd suggest showing them:

1. http://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?q=Belfast,uk
2. http://jsonprettyprint.com/ /* So they can see the data in the JSON file a little more clearly. */
3. Your nicely designed weather app.

This week is essentially about showing them the trajectory of Weeks 07-12 and giving them a sense that – if they do the work required – they will achieve awesome by the end.

We'll need to explain what an API is and what a JSON API client is. Something along the lines of an updated version of this [article](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2012/02/beginners-guide-jquery-based-json-api-clients/) on Smashing Magazine.


###Week 08 - Hello JavaScript

I think, before we get down to building the app, we need to introduce them to some fundamentals of JavaScript. (I can do this, if needs be.)

I'd like to introduce them to some fundamental JavaScript principles so that they're not intimidated by JavaScript, should they encounter it in the wild. (I don't want them all automatically thinking they should use jQuery for everything.)

I had in mind some simple exercises (probably drawn from Jon Duckett's [JavaScript and jQuery: Interactive Front-end Web Development](http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/1118531647/monographic-21)). Essentially, this would be a JavaScript 101 week.


###Week 09 - Getting Jiggy With It 1

This would take some of the concepts you mentioned in your email (below) and explain them:

+ Variables 
+ The DOM
+ Objects
+ Arrays
+ AJAX
+ JSON
+ If statements
+ Strings
+ Functions

I think the above list is too much to cover in one week, so I'd suggest we break it down over two weeks. I also wonder if we should take the AJAX and JSON out of this list and cover it in Week 11. This foucses Weeks 09 and 10 on JavaScript before we start to look at AJAX and JSON.


###Week 10 - Getting Jiggy With It 2

This covers the remainder of the list in Week 09, broadening out their JavaScript toolbox.


###Week 11 - Hello JSON

With what we've covered in Weeks 09 and 10, we introduce JSON. Explaining what a data interchange format is and ensuring that, if they hear the terms 'JSON' and 'APIs' they know what that means.

This [tutorial](https://mijingo.com/lessons/what-is-json/) at Mijingo is a good overview.


###Week 12 - Adding a Little Style

In the final week, we encourage them to take their functional prototypes and style them using CSS. This is where we remind them of what you built and showed them in Week 07, encouraging them to build their own little, nicely styled weather app.

I'd like them, for extra credit, to build a wee promotional site for their web app and consider its branding, but I see this as extra credit work that they'll do to earn the big marks.
