IXD103 Exploring Identity Overview
==================================

Designing your personal identity… that's the focus. 100%. Last year we did something different, but I'd like to shake things up a little, move the goalposts and set some concrete goals.

My hope is that we secure a nomination (better still, a winner) in the net Awards' Young Designer of the Year, or Young Developer of the Year categories. We'll look at past winners and audit their work so that we can learn from them. This process – of auditing content – maps onto the real world, where we often find ourselves, as designers, needing to audit a client's content, making suggestions for improvement.

My goal, if you work hard enough, is to ensure you're the next generation of celebrated designers shaping the web. (No pressure.) To do this we'll need to consider your personal brands, ensuring you present yourselves to the world in a carefully considered manner.

We'll look at all aspects of a personal brand: tone of voice, typographic and visual identities, a set of brand guidelines, culminating in a portfolio web site.



Week 01 - Who are you?
----------------------

I don't know you, and in our first week I'll rectify that. We'll explore who you are, starting to developing content you can use online (for example, bios you can use at Twitter, Instagram and other sites). My key questions:

+ Who are you?
+ Who do you want to be?

We'll use the answers to these questions in a Twitter Bios exercise so that, during Week 01, you can begin to consider your personal brand.

You need to look at others' work to shape your own. Gathering inspiration will shape you as a designer, giving a clearer sense of direction. As Austin Kleon puts it [Steal Like an Artist](http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0761169253/monographic-21):

> You don’t want to look like your heroes, you want to see like your heroes.

This process is similar to the concept of 'negative space': defining something, by defining everything around it. By looking at how other designers define themselves, a picture emerges – in the negative space – that defines you.

As we discussed today, this should run in two passes.

The first is the macro view, identifying exemplars - Who inspires you? - that will very quickly give you a sense of where you see yourself fitting in the landscape. By looking at the picture from a bird's eye perspective it helps you define a 'flavour'.

The second is a micro view, a much more detailed analysis of the different exemplars. How are their sites structured? How is content organised? How often is content posted? These questions help you shape a much more detailed strategy.

To get the ball rolling, this week I'd like you to set up a Tumblr and start gathering **and reflecting upon** your discoveries. Tell us why what you're sharing inspires you. A few lines will do. Please tag all posts that apply to this module IXD103 so we can tease out the relevant content when we do the assessment.



<!--

1 + 1 + 1 = 5
-------------


This is all about how you're made up of all of the influences you inherit. How *looking* - **actually looking** - matters, hugely.



Voice and Tone
--------------

The language we use is important… Words. Voice and tone. These define a brand. Are you: Murphy? Mr Murphy? Chris? Christopher? I? He? First person? Third person?

All of this needs work, we'll do a wee analysis of others' work, etc.. Maybe this is a tone 




Brand Strategy
--------------

What exactly do we mean by this?How everything ties together… This might come **before** 'Who are you?' If so, show the Young Designer of the Year folks in this week.









Black and White - 1 (Monogram)
------------------------------

For the next three weeks we're focused on form, pure and simple. Colour comes later.

Some examples.

Wolfgang Weingart, etc. Early Swiss designers, etc..



Black and White - 2 (Wordmark)
------------------------------

Yves Saint Laurent
The Scottish Gallery



Black and White - 3 (Marque)
----------------------------

This is more about marques, visual manifestations of an identity.





A Consistent Brand Across the Web
---------------------------------

GitHub Icon, Twitter Avatar…





Corporate Identity
------------------

Talk about a framework for everything… This could be a before and after style thing? With CI first, followed by a practical session on web-based guidelines.

+ Brand
  + Colour
  + Black and White
  + Reversal
  + Etc.  


-->



 


